All right here's a multi loop problem.
Probably the hardest one we've got so far.
It says find the current Each branch.
Now I've given you some labels here.
You choose to use those or not.
It's kind of up to you.
So how do we find the current and branch well.
We have to apply our rules.
We have Kirchhoff's rules we have a junction rule.
There's two junctions in this problem we can either use junction B or drunks and C we're going to get
the same answer.
So let's go ahead and write junction B what is the junction rule says whatever current flows into the
junction has to be equal to the current flowing out.
So we have I going into the junction that must be equal to one plus two.
The way I've got them labeled there I want an IDE to leave the junction I goes into it and I call this
equation 1.
Now all we can do is we can do some loops.
What I'm going to do first is I'm going to do a loop around this kind of smaller left side.
I'm going to start at point F and I'm going to go around here in a clockwise fashion.
So if I start at point f the first thing I encounter here is a 12 volt battery.
So I get plus 12.
Now nothing happens.
I get to Point B.
Now I'm going to go through this four ohm resistor so I get a voltage drop of four multiplied by the
current flowing through that we've called that I won.
Now I go to point E and I'm going to cross a three ohm resistor in the direction of the current negative
voltage drop equal to three multiplied by the current.
Careful these are different from each other now.
I go back to point f that must be equal to zero.
Let's call this equation to know for Equation 3 to go around the big loop go around the outside.
Again we're going to start at point f.
So the first part looks the same you get plus 12.
The voltage of the battery.
Now I'm going across a tool resistor.
I get minus two multiplied by the current flowing through that guy it's Aitu.
Now look what happened.
Now I'm crossing a battery and I'm going from the positive to the negative side.
So I get a voltage drop equal to the voltage of the battery and the last part now is minus three multiplied
by the current That's the voltage drop.
That's the same term as what I had in the equation.
I go back to point f that's what I get.
Now it could have gone and made another equation if I wanted to I could have gone through and either
go clockwise or counterclockwise it doesn't really matter.
And you went around like this you could have done that we can write down that equation.
Since we're practicing here.
So let's go around the same thing.
First thing I encounter is that 2 ohm resistor that should be the same two times Aitu the voltage drop
minus five.
Now the only difference is when I'm going through this forum resistor in this case I'm going in the
opposite direction of the current.
So I have to have a potential gain now of four multiplied by one that equals to zero.
So we have three unknowns.
We have the current I have a one and we have two really.
All we require to solve this are three equations.
Right now we have four equations.
However it turns out that the last one it doesn't give us any new information because I could have got
this last equation if I simply would of taking the difference between equation 2 and Equation 3.
Check it out for yourself right.
If you take the difference between both of those what are you going to get the 12 volts are going to
cancel out you're going to get minus four.
I wonder you're going to get the minus three ones are going to cancel out or minus three times.
I rather if I take the difference you're going to get plus five and you're going to get plus two.
So at the end you're going to get the exact same equation except the signs are going to be flipped around.
But if I would it did equation three minus equation too then I would have gotten the exact same.
Or you could check it out minus two Aitu minus five and then plus four times I won OK.
So we really don't get any new information from this equation.
You can use it if you want it doesn't matter.
But we really need to use at least the first three equations in order to solve what the currents are.
You could substitute equation to an equation 3 for equation for whichever one you choose.
All right so at this point now we just kind of get rid of that and discuss this enough.
Let's just how do we get down to the algebra.
Now all of the physics is actually done.
All you have to do now is kind of manipulate these equations in order to solve the currents.
It's a little bit tricky but the way I like to do it is I'm going to keep the first equation as is and
what I'm going to try to do now is eliminate the currents.
I want an aitu.
Can I write both of these only in terms of I.
Well in order to do that I'm going to use equation too.
So let me write two over here.
And what we're going to do is we're going to write I want in terms of I.
So if I can rewrite this I'm going to get four.
One has to be equal so for I want to get that by bringing it on the other side.
This is simply 12 minus three times.
Now if you divide through by 4 and get rid of it over here if I divide through by 4 what I'm going to
end up getting is three minus three fourths multiplied by.
And that's the equation I get for I 1 from equation 3 I can do something very very similar.
I'm going to isolate what I 2 is.
So I get to Aitu going to be equal to Looks like 712 minus five is seven minus three times I.
And at the end we're going to simply divide by divide by 2 bring the two down stairs.
So I'm going to get seven over to minus three over two multiplied by.
So now I've written I won and I too in terms of the current in this left most branch.
So what you do now is you simply substitute into this equation and you get kind of a messy looking thing
but it's just algebra.
So you get i equals to and instead of writing I won I'm simply going to write three minus three over
four times.
I thought of writing Aitu.
I simply write seven over two loops minus three over two multiplied by.
Now you've got to group everything together and at the end do but a week's worth of math a lot that
will let you do that for yourself.
You should get that I's equal to two imps
from the last equation I wrote over here.
Now once you get that I's equal to two.
Now guess what.
Now you can go back you can go ahead and substitute that over here and solve for what I want is you
can go ahead and substitute that into this equation and get what the current Aitu is.
Let's go ahead and do that.
So what you get is three minus three or four.
And that's multiplied by two.
That gives me three here I can factor out to three minus 1.5.
Should give me 1.5 amps.
That's my current one.
And that automatically means that if this is three point five seven over two minus three over two multiplied
by two we're left with zero point five is the current Aitu.
And that makes a lot of sense where I live we have two amps going in.
You've got 1.5 going over here.
And actually I got 0.5 out of a small current going on this side over here.
All right so now we basically solve the first part.
All we have to do now is let's find the energy dissipated in this four ohm resistor.
So what does the energy dissipated over here.
Actually they're asking you in a certain amount of time or what you can first do for Part B is find
the power you can find the rate at which energy is being dissipated.
All right the power being dissipated in any resistor is the value of the resistance multiplied by the
current flowing through it.
And don't forget to square that.
And that's the power that's the rate that's the number of Joules per second.
So in three seconds then I can find how much total energy was dissipated.
But let's first start by finding the power.
So you get for here and now the current.
I would just solve for that too.
Oh except I got to be a little bit careful.
It's I one that goes in there or almost a costly mistake over there and the current one is 1.5 that
have Raddy 1.5 that's going to be hard to square that.
If I read it it is three over two that I square that it's going to be a little bit easier for me to
do the math.
All right.
So we get four multiplied three squared gives me nine and two squared gives me four.
So you see those fours cancel out nicely.
So the power dissipated is nine Watts in that resistor.
And if you wanted to find the energy Now remember the power you want to find the energy in three seconds
it's simply the power multiplied by the time.
So in this case simply nine multiplied by three seconds we get twenty seven joules.
That is the energy dissipated in this forum resistor in three seconds.
OK.
So again pretty straightforward.
Matthew gets a little bit tedious when you have multi loop circuits so this is kind of probably as hard
as you would get in kind of on a test.
I would assume I mean it's you're not going to get four or five loops unless there is kind of a trick
to simplify it but otherwise you can get kind of complicated algebra if you have fractions just be a
little bit careful with setting up the physics we should have that down.
Don't forget our power relationships.
That's all there is to it.